[THEME MUSIC]
>>JOSEPH SELBIE:
We are continuously
creating maintaining and
sustaining the physical body.
If we did not have
an energy body,
the physical body
would cease to exist.
Puff of atoms and
it would be gone.
We exist in two
different realms.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: At least.
>>SELBIE: At least.
All of us have been
on a long journey.
We've been everything.
And in that process, we've come
to how we perceive ourselves.
And it's not something
that will endure forever.
We can, in fact, change it.
>>REGINA: From what you can
tell, what is happening?
>>SELBIE: Well, I've been
curious about that myself.
>>REGINA: When you look
at the actual material
makeup of a human being,
the atoms that make us us
fit on the head of a pin.
What then is this body
and all that we see?
If we're nothing but
space, what keeps us
from passing through
one another and dropping
through the Earth beneath us?
Joseph Selbie and
I will be talking
about what makes up our
3D perceived reality
and why mind, i.e.
consciousness, matters.
In fact, in a sense,
it's all that matters.
[LAUGHS] Welcome, Joseph.
>>SELBIE: Thank
you for having me.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's
good to have you here.
I loved your book.
And Sandie Sedgbeer, a
colleague of mine in England--
we were interviewed
for OMTimes and talked
about what we think are
the most essential books.
And yours was on
both of our lists.
I have to tell you that.
>>SELBIE: Wow.
>>REGINA: "The Physics of God."
>>SELBIE: I'm honored.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, it's really important.
So we're going to dive right in.
We're talking about
quantum physics
and reality and consciousness,
which a lot of people
glaze over and think, aha.
But this is going to
be fun because we're
going to do it via story
and some examples that
are so stunning, we can't ignore
the fact that we actually do
create our own reality, right?
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
Correct.
>>REGINA: So let's
start-- we're going
to start right in on this one.
So you say that we-- this--
we are a local manifestation
of a nonlocal phenomena.
So let's just start there
in regular human terms.
>>SELBIE: So
nonlocality is a term
that gets kind of
bandied about in a lot
of scientific discussions and
in spiritual teachings combined,
because nonlocality
is essentially
another realm, a deeper
realm, a more subtle realm
than the three-dimensional
physical realm
that we perceive
through our senses.
So the fact that
it exists is one
of the most significant
supports for the idea
that there's more to us
than a physical body.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: If there's an
entirely more subtle realm,
vast subtle realm that
exists nonlocally,
whereas the
three-dimensional is local,
it suggests that we exist
in two different realms--
>>REGINA: At least.
>>SELBIE: --at least.
>>REGINA: Right.
And that should be very
exciting for everybody,
because as everybody
fears and hangs
on to this physical
manifestation, if we all
truly understood that we are
a multidimensional being that
exists far beyond whatever
happens to this Earth suit,
it would change, I
think, the way we live.
>>SELBIE: And it does.
Those who have near-death
experiences, almost
universally say that the one
most significant realization
they have after they
return is that they
have no fear of death.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: And that it puts
in a completely different
perspective to work on why
they are doing what they're
doing when they're alive, which
is mainly learning to love,
give, and care for others,
and that that's the number one
reason that we're all here.
>>REGINA: It's the same thing.
It doesn't matter who the person
is and what their history was,
same thing comes
up over and over.
So if this is just all of this
is a field of possibility, then
what determines you
versus me and this table
versus the floor?
>>SELBIE: Nothing.
[LAUGHTER]
It's all been manifested
through a mechanism that
begins in nonlocality and
expresses itself in locality,
in this three-dimensional
material world.
But our physical
bodies are just as
real and unreal as
this table or the world
that we perceive around
us because they're all,
as you said at the beginning,
mostly empty space.
The atoms that surround
us and make us up
are 99.999% empty space.
>>REGINA: I mean to
give a visual on it,
if you looked at our solar
system and the planets
in the solar system, that's kind
of what most atoms look like,
right?
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: That's it.
And look how far
apart these things are
and how much space
there is in between.
Every atom in our body,
essentially, is like that.
And this is the
hardest part for people
to get their minds around.
How come physical five-sensory
reality feels so real?
What is it in our being?
And this comes down to
collective perceptions,
and beliefs, and realms, and
creation, and creative minds,
and programming, but it's
all essentially programming.
It's a program.
>>SELBIE: It's an expression--
>>REGINA: A created expression--
>>SELBIE: --of our mind--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: --that gives
us the form that we have.
And when we change our
conviction about what we
look like or our
state of health or any
of the physical
attributes of ourselves,
they will actually
change immediately.
>>REGINA: We're going to talk
about that in a stunning story
in a moment.
But this is interesting because
people feel it's down to fate.
If you're born with a
disability or if someone's
born with very irregular
features and this is something
they feel self-conscious with
and go through life with,
it seems very unfair.
At face value, looking
at life on this planet,
socioeconomically
and physically,
it can seem very unfair.
But what you just
said is really key.
>>SELBIE: Well, all of us
have been on a long journey
beyond just one lifetime.
>>REGINA: Yes.
We've been everything.
[LAUGHS]
>>SELBIE: We've been everything.
And in that process,
we've come to, today,
how we perceive ourselves.
And it's not something
that will endure forever,
and that we can,
in fact, change it.
And I don't want
to make it sound
like it would be easy to
change it because convictions--
there's the old
saying about, well,
if it's just in your mind,
then it must be easy to change.
But in fact, the fact that it is
in your mind is the hard part--
>>REGINA: It is--
>>SELBIE: --not the easy part.
>>REGINA: That's
not the easy part.
That's true.
Because here we're laden
with all of the subconscious
programming from our
past, everything that's
ever been resides
in the subconscious
and is carried forward from
incarnation to incarnation
to inform us, to essentially
keep us out of danger
and alive.
I mean, red alert,
red alert, it's
all over in the subconscious,
everything that's
ever happened that's harmed us.
And also, everything that's
happened that's made us laugh
and given us joy.
It's all there.
But it's constantly talking
to us without our knowledge.
And that's reinforcing patterns
and beliefs of lifetime
after lifetime.
That's why when you say the
mind is that's the hard part.
That is the hard part.
>>SELBIE: Yeah, the mind
is like the sum total
of all of our experiences.
Obviously, the ones in
this life are dominating,
but we have millions,
billions of other impressions,
other convictions that
are supporting everything
that we believe
and understand now.
>>REGINA: Right.
And constitute what our mind is.
So let's go to this one
case in your book that
is just so stunning.
I can't-- I've shared it
with other people, too--
stop thinking about.
And it's the woman with the
multiple personality disorder.
So set it up first
about this woman,
who she was, how she became
analyzed, why they began
studying her to begin with.
And then we'll go into
some of the manifestations.
>>SELBIE: Well, a common
thing about people
suffering from multiple
personality disorder--
and I do mean suffering from.
It's not an enviable
condition to be in.
But a common way in
which they're discovered
is that they go to a
doctor or a psychologist
because they believe
that they're amnesiacs,
that they can't remember
whole chunks of their lives.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: And then it
eventually comes out
that the reason why
they can't remember
is that they're only
one player of many
who are playing out that life.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: And so once
they get diagnosed
with this multiple
personality disorder,
they discover the amazing
differences in personality
types that are expressed through
these multiple personalities.
Some can speak foreign
languages that others can't.
Some can play instruments
that others can't.
And it's really quite varied.
But what's lesser
known is that each one
of those multiple
personalities also
have physiological differences.
>>REGINA: Yeah, this
is the shocking part,
because this is where mind
and consciousness comes back
into play.
>>SELBIE: Exactly.
So you might have one
personality that has a mole--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: --and another
that doesn't have it.
>>REGINA: And this
has been validated.
>>SELBIE: Yes.
Oh, yes.
Been measured by many--
>>REGINA: This woman has been
measured and it'll disappear
or reappear--
>>SELBIE: Right.
>>REGINA: --with the
personality that comes in,
which sounds impossible.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
And some of it runs
very deep, rather than
superficial skin conditions.
One woman had 10 personalities.
And she was measured
by an optician
as each of 10 personalities
rolled through within an hour.
And the makeup of the eye-- the
measurable makeup of the eye
was different in every one
of those 10 personalities,
including, in one case,
the color of the iris
was different.
>>REGINA: Yes.
[LAUGHS] And you
have voices change.
Scars come and go--
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --from people.
>>SELBIE: And one of the more
amazing ones that I actually
ran into more
recently that isn't
in my book, "The
Physics of God,"
is about a woman who has 9
out of 10 of her personalities
can see, to varying degrees
of quality, but one of them
is completely blind.
>>REGINA: Hmm.
>>SELBIE: And when they
measure her blind personality,
they do so by flashing a really
bright light right in her eyes.
>>REGINA: Right.
You can't fake that.
>>SELBIE: And you
can't fake that.
>>REGINA: No.
>>SELBIE: There's no--
>>REGINA: No response.
>>SELBIE: No response
in the brain--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: --to this.
But yet, with the other
nine, there is a response.
>>REGINA: Now, this opens
up many cans of worms
but also some really
fascinating possibilities
that I'm curious about.
In one sense, I look
at it and think,
is it possible that, for
reasons I don't comprehend,
a soul may have many different
expressions that are choosing
to express in this timeline?
Is it that other beings
are coming with their DNA
from other dimensions
and surfing
into this person, their
field, and changing them
on a genetic level?
From what you can tell,
what is happening?
>>SELBIE: Well, I've been
curious about that myself
for a very long time.
And I've had conversations
with psychics
who say that it's 10
different beings or however
many personalities a
particular sufferer has.
They're all different beings
coming in at different times.
>>REGINA: Surfing off
of this individual
to have an expression
in the physical world.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
But I also think that
it's not necessary
that it be different people.
>>REGINA: I'm
wondering that, too.
>>SELBIE: Because I
think that the key is
the absolute conviction in
the mind of each personality.
So each personality
when they come in,
they bring different
convictions.
The convictions they
bring are from--
I have a mole on my right wrist,
that I need to wear glasses--
all of those things, they
come in 100% convinced
because they have no--
>>REGINA: Well, that's
their experience.
That's hard fact.
>>SELBIE: That's
hard fact for them.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: And they
have no perspective
that there are
other personalities
within that same
sufferer who differ.
So for them, of course, they
have a mole on their wrist.
And they do.
>>REGINA: But that just
shows us how quickly
the physiological
aspect of ourselves
can be changed with an imprint
from a being or a soul.
And I've also wondered
if it might not
be expressions of us even
coming through from other times.
If they say time is basically
an infinity loop, instead
of linear, then
could it possibly
be some of our old personalities
coming back and trying
to experience or rectify
something in this time,
and we carry those
traits we had then?
>>SELBIE: Yeah, I think
all of those are possible.
And it doesn't necessarily
have to be one or the other.
>>REGINA: No, it doesn't
because each one brought with it
its own genetic blueprint
for their life in that time.
And each being, if
it's different beings,
is bringing through its
own genetic blueprint.
>>SELBIE: Right.
>>REGINA: So it's actually
affecting a person on a DNA
level, but at warp speed.
>>SELBIE: Instantaneously.
>>REGINA: Instantaneously.
A scar comes and
then just disappears.
It's like what you see in films.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
Or the eye color changes.
>>REGINA: Or the
eye color changes.
Yeah.
To me, this is phenomenal.
And the story of these
multiple personalities
that have been witnessed
and measured, to me
is phenomenal in
that it illustrates
how quickly our reality
can change, like you say,
when there is this conviction
that creates an imprint.
>>SELBIE: And I think
that in each one of us,
in more practical
terms, since most of us
are not multiple
personality sufferers,
but we change
instantly all the time.
So when you're moving from one
emotional level to another,
it changes your entire body.
If a conviction is newly
awakened or reawakened
in your mind, it
changes your entire body
and it does so instantaneously.
And in a given day,
they say that our genes
can be upregulated
or deregulated
in the thousands of
changes in one day,
in one person just going
about an ordinary life.
We're not fixed.
We are anything but fixed.
>>REGINA: It sounds like the way
in which we appear to be fixed
is that generally
we'll tend to go
to some kind of dominant stable
system of belief or function,
right?
And that's going to fix
us so that you still
look like you or I
still look like me
and have a relatively
stable level of health.
But this can change
very rapidly as well.
Like you say, it changes
with each emotion.
If the system becomes
overwhelmed and acidic,
we start going into a
different kind of decline,
almost like a rapid
kind of deterioration
in the immune system.
>>SELBIE: Yeah, and you can
see it in people's faces.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: You can
see their face fall.
You can have this experience of
thinking someone has just aged.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: But at the same
time, you have the opposite--
>>REGINA: Opposite, yeah.
>>SELBIE: --where they
seem more youthful.
The smiles come, the energy
comes through their eyes,
and they are more youthful.
And it's not subjective.
It's real.
>>REGINA: And yeah,
so, I mean, this
is something for each one
of us to play with, I think,
when everyone's
done watching this,
to think about that, because
the quality of our feelings--
not just our thoughts, but
the quality of our feelings
is going to dictate the harmony
within our physical being.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
A powerful part of
our health is emotion.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: Those two--
emotion and conviction--
are probably 75%-85% of
our whole health picture,
where diet, exercise, all the
things that people are mostly
preoccupied with, are far less.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
So that gets me to-- well, I
have a lot of questions here,
but we'll get into the building
blocks of reality in a bit,
get back to the quantum world.
But something that
is intriguing is
because humanity has
this kind of empathy
and we have these kinds of
commitments to each other,
how often people bring
themselves down emotionally
and suffer in
relationship to someone
they love who's suffering.
So it's not even ours.
We're taking on another
person's suffering
and basically bringing
our entire system down
in the process.
And it's almost as though
we feel disloyal or callous
if we don't acknowledge someone
else's suffering by suffering.
Now, you're a
lifelong meditator.
And you have followed Yogananda
and Yogananda's practices
for most of your life.
Let's talk about that.
Because a lot of the
suffering people are saying,
yeah, but my husband's doing
so poorly or my mother's dying,
and by association
we're dying, too.
So let's talk about
that for a moment.
>>SELBIE: Well, a good
friend once used the analogy
that if someone is
drowning and you
can't swim, jumping in to
save them is not a good idea.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: Give them some kind
of life ring or something
that will actually allow them
to get out of their suffering.
So our suffering, our
emotional depression
does nothing for
the other person.
It does just the opposite
for the other person.
It reinforces it.
>>REGINA: Because
we are entangled.
>>SELBIE: We're entangled.
And as we started off, talking
about nonlocality, most of what
we experience--
our emotions, our convictions,
our thoughts, our memories,
our life force--
they're all nonlocal.
And because they're nonlocal,
and particularly this
is significant with
emotion, because there's
no distance between
us, you're experiencing
my emotion as strongly as
I'm experiencing it myself
and vice versa.
And that it's entangled,
yes, but it's also
immediate and real.
And then once you connect,
you stay connected.
And you can be a
carrier of depression.
You can just bring it along--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: --from
person to person.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: Or you can be a
carrier of joy and positivity
and happiness.
So I think our highest
service to each other
is to genuinely stay in an
elevated state of consciousness
and in harmonious,
loving emotions.
>>REGINA: That's the best
we can do for the person we
love who's suffering.
And it's hard because we have
all this beaten into us--
guilt, being of service--
that life has
beaten into people.
You owe it to them.
Oh, they did so much
for me growing up.
I must suffer on their behalf.
This is all backward.
>>SELBIE: Yes.
But you don't have
to be Pollyannaish--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: --and go and beam at
this person who's depressed,
because you'll probably
just annoy them--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Make them more depressed.
>>SELBIE: --or whatever
reaction they will have.
So you have to just be genuinely
centered in your own harmony
and respond to them
meaningfully rather
than from any sense of what you
should or shouldn't be doing.
>>REGINA: Anything obligatory.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Really come
from your knowingness.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because so
much of the suffering
is happening in relationship
and in entanglement with others.
And so, interestingly,
the Nobel Prize in physics
was finally awarded to a team
of three scientists in October
of 2022 for proving that
entanglement exists, right?
>>SELBIE: Right.
>>REGINA: American,
Austrian, and French.
And what I found
interesting and I thought,
finally, it's about time.
We have to start honoring the
spooky action at a distance
factor in science and
giving it legitimacy.
But the interesting thing
was the American scientist
commented afterwards-- he
said, we have proven it.
I have no idea how it works.
And that's because,
yet, with all of this,
they seem not to
be able to embrace
the notion of consciousness.
>>SELBIE: Well, I think
they would embrace it.
I think many of them
embrace it personally,
but they don't
bring it into what
they think of as their
professionalism as a scientist.
But there isn't
any specific proof
that consciousness
exists outside of us,
outside the body, beyond
the physical realm.
And yet, everything
points to it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: But until
there is that proof,
then scientists, like
the three you mentioned,
are professionally bound to be
skeptical or say, I don't know.
But I think the tide is turning.
I think more and more
scientists, more and more
people are embracing the reality
of consciousness being not born
of the brain but a preexisting--
>>REGINA: Something
we're bathed in.
It's something the
entire universe exists.
>>SELBIE: And it's
the foundation.
>>REGINA: It's the foundation
of everything in all dimensions,
in all universes.
>>SELBIE: Yes.
>>REGINA: It
precedes everything.
And so because this spills over
into spirituality and religion,
it seems like that's
the difficulty.
It's still the difficulty
in the world of science.
>>SELBIE: And I think in
fairness, for a lot of people,
what we think of as--
what you and I probably
think of as spirituality
isn't that familiar to them.
They're thinking
in religious terms.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: They're thinking of--
>>REGINA: Biblical terms.
>>SELBIE: --a belief system,
where experiential spirituality
is where consciousness
really becomes real.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: And you
experience it directly.
You feel it beyond
the physical body.
In fact, you feel yourself
to be so much more
than just the physical body
that your convictions change.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: And once
your convictions
change, it's obvious.
[LAUGHS] It's obvious
that everything
is born of consciousness,
and that you
are an expression of
that consciousness,
and that it's loving and
that it's intelligent.
And that really s
the God that I talk
about in "The Physics of God."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: Is that infinite
intelligent, loving
consciousness of which
I and everyone else
is an integral part.
>>REGINA: Which has
unfathomable creative potential.
And that extends to us as well.
So another book that is
one of these essentials
that everyone must read
is actually "Autobiography
of a Yogi," right?
And so I loved all--
it's just such a readable book.
And it's a fun journey
to go along on his ride
when he was a young man
and seeking one thing.
And it's interesting because
he had a strong will.
But on the other hand,
he and the others
in India at the time--
well, and still to this day,
who are seeking this oneness
with the divine, have to let
go of a certain personal notion
of who they are, a
certain identity.
And for him and the others,
it was very interesting
because, along the way, they
watched the most amazing things
along the line of this
multiple personality disorder.
Let's talk about some
of the different kinds
of saints and phenomena
that Yogananda experienced
as he was going through
his young journey
to teach him reality
is not what we
think it is, because
it's very fun, really.
>>SELBIE: He loved
to visit saints.
>>REGINA: And there
were a lot of them.
>>SELBIE: And there
>>REGINA: They were
all over in Kolkata.
[LAUGHS]
>>SELBIE: Yeah,
it makes one long
to go back to that kind of time.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: But one that comes
to mind is this perfume saint.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: So he went
to visit this saint.
And what he would do is he
could give any flower any scent.
So if you wanted to
have a flower that
was ordinarily scentless have
lavender, or lilac, or rose,
he could do it.
And it wasn't just subjective,
because you could then
take that flower and offer it to
someone who wasn't even there,
and they would smell
that fragrance that
didn't belong to that flower.
>>REGINA: Yes.
[LAUGHS]
>>SELBIE: And there was
the levitating saint
who could do a breathing
exercise to such
a powerful degree that he
would rise from the floor
and he could stay floating for
indefinite periods of time.
>>REGINA: I remember
him also talking
about one who really couldn't
control it all that well.
They just kind of float up.
And this one was--
this one he was writing
about was actually
I believe a Catholic.
>>SELBIE: Saint
Joseph of Cupertino.
>>REGINA: Saint
Joseph of Cupertino
where he would just float up and
he couldn't keep himself down.
Share a little bit about that.
I hadn't read about him before.
>>SELBIE: Yeah, he became
so inspired so easily.
All he had to do
was see a crucifix,
or hear a sacred song, or
anything could set him off,
and he would literally
just begin to rise.
And in fact, he did this in the
court of the Pope at the time.
And he did it so
often that his brother
monks, they were just so used
to it, they would grab him.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] Try to
bring him back down.
>>SELBIE: So that
he didn't get--
so he didn't get out of reach.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] I love that.
>>SELBIE: So that they
could keep him tethered.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And he had saints
that were walking through walls.
There was another
one of the yogis
who fought tigers, wild Bengali
tigers with his bare hands,
until his ego got out of check.
And that was interesting,
the lessons that were taught.
What happens when ego comes in?
>>SELBIE: Well, he
was fighting tigers
against the advice
of someone who
he knew later was his
spiritual teacher and also
against the advice
of his father.
But he was a powerful
man to begin with.
And so he got caught
up in the power.
>>REGINA: Oh, he was
doing shows all over.
>>SELBIE: He was doing shows.
And he had his final
comeuppance, his final lesson
when a maharaja challenged him
to fight his tiger that was
quite large, quite powerful.
>>REGINA: They got a
big wild Bengali tiger.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: They captured one.
>>SELBIE: And then
they didn't feed it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It was horrifying
reading about it.
[LAUGHS]
>>SELBIE: But he was
grievously wounded
in the fight with the
tiger, but he won.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: And then
he almost died
from the wounds of the tiger.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: And it was then that
his spiritual teacher came back
to him and said, are you done?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: Are you done--
>>REGINA: With your performances
and your egoic tricks.
>>SELBIE: If you're
done with this,
then let's move on to fighting
the real battles, which
are the inner battles of wrongly
understanding who we are.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: Getting
beyond the notion
that we are this physical body.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And it's funny because Yogananda
felt that a lot of this
was almost--
it was fun, but he felt it
was almost like parlor tricks.
And it wasn't really
what he was looking for.
He was looking for
something more essential.
>>SELBIE: Yes,
>>REGINA: And that's the thing
that his teachings pass on,
and that you are looking
for, and millions of people
are looking for this
essential thing.
So I want to take that
part of the conversation
into the notion that there is
this perfected template, almost
like the Elysian Fields that
the Greeks and Roman heroes were
given access to, told
they would have access
to upon their deaths, which is
many people have glimpsed this,
which is simply a perfected
version of what we're
seeing right now here on Earth.
And if you look at
it in hermetic terms,
they call it the fourth
realm or the realm
of the children of the sun.
And so let's talk about the
perfected template, ego,
and how we start living in
alignment with our very truest,
highest manifestation
here without getting
all caught up in the ego,
in our sense of self.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
I think people, certainly
decades ago, became overly
obsessed with ego
and the thought
that they had to break
the boundaries of ego
or they had to suppress the
ego in order to be spiritual.
And I think it just took on
a dimension of concern that
was unnecessary.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because
you can't ever get rid--
ego is the accumulation
of what you are.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
And a good friend
once said that there
are two ways to see
what is happening
in the spiritual life.
One is that you can think of it
that your ego is reducing down
to nothing, which is
kind of the Buddhist
approach and other paths as
well, that they gradually
disassociate with
anything that's egoic.
And in the process, they
re-associate with everything
that is infinite.
But you can also think of
it as your ego expanding
until it reaches infinity.
And both of those points
of view are equally valid.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: So on
the path I'm on--
Yogananda's path-- he
basically encourages
people to be creative and
to take the ego into higher
and higher octaves
of manifestation
rather than being overly
concerned with what I'm feeling
today and what I'm experiencing
today and reacting positively
or negatively to that, which
is a manifestation of ego.
Instead, to take it
up a level or two
and express who you are at
higher and higher levels
of awareness and consciousness.
And I think for Westerners
that's very attractive.
>>REGINA: I think so,
too, because if you
look at it in the purest
sense, if the ego is
just a collective of everything
we are up to this point
in time, that's us.
It is our individuated self.
But it sounds like
what you're saying,
and Yogananda was
saying, but don't use it
in a self-conscious way
where you're constantly
self-evaluating and
self-flagellating.
Now, beyond that, the
thing I'm referring to more
is almost kind of
an over-identity
with I am the CEO
of this corporation.
When I lose my business card, I
lose my identity and I'm dead.
>>SELBIE: Right.
>>REGINA: I'm talking
about that kind of very
stark and severe
over-identification
with a particular role,
for example, which actually
kind of blocks you
from the beauty of what
you're trying to become.
>>SELBIE: Yes.
I agree completely.
And I think that the
key, which I always
come back to in every
conversation I have
with anyone, is meditation.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: That the CEO who's
over-identifying and therefore
is up or down, according
to whether the company is
up or down, is always going to
be that way unless and until he
or she can feel and
experience directly
that there is a deeper reality
of which they are a part.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SELBIE: And otherwise
it's all ideas.
And it has no reality.
That CEO may say, oh, yeah,
I understand all that.
But then their company takes
a big dip and so do they.
So it's not enough to
say that is a truth.
You have to experience
it and feel it directly.
And then when the company dips
and you don't dip with it,
then you have a real
powerful change in your life.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So let's talk
about the template.
I mean, we have
some time left here
to get into some of
the mechanics of it.
Starting 1D, 2D, 3D, because
it's a little different way
to look at it than
a lot of people do.
We think of the lower
dimensions as, ooh, icky,
has to be terrible
down there, you know.
[LAUGHS] So let's talk about
the original point-- the 1D, 2D,
up to 3D--
and the perfected
template and what it
takes for us to live
into and be that.
>>SELBIE: Well, I think that
the basic metaphysical structure
that you're speaking of is
that our physical bodies are
three-dimensional, our subtle
nonlocal bodies that I talked
about, that are
composed of ideas,
and memories, and life
force, are two-dimensional.
And then there's an
ideational body, if you will,
that isn't even in form,
that is one-dimensional.
>>REGINA: Is that just
a field of potential?
>>SELBIE: Well, according to
Yogananda, it is all potential,
but that there is yet
another realm beyond it
that has zero
dimensions, which is just
pure being, pure consciousness.
And that it's from
that pure consciousness
and the infinite
intelligence that
is that pure consciousness,
that the first dimension is
created, the ideational level.
And then you have the second
level that is energetic.
And then you have the third
level, which is physical.
So this is one
metaphysical description.
And I think that if you
want to say it this way,
the most perfect template
begins with the one-dimensional
thought forms.
And then you have
the second dimension
of two dimensions of energy,
that is an expression of that.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: And then finally, you
have the physical dimension,
which is an expression
of the two dimensional.
So the key for us, I
think to understand,
is that we are mostly
zero dimensions.
We are spirit.
Even though we don't have an
awareness of it every day,
day in and day out, it is still
fundamentally of who we are.
And then we have
our ideation, which
is where our deep
convictions come from of who
and what we are.
And then we have this
two-dimensional body,
which is a exact
counterpart or a--
>>REGINA: Almost like
an empiric double.
>>SELBIE: --perfect counterpart
of the physical body.
And whenever we change
anything in the energy body,
it immediately changes
in the physical body.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And a couple of
things come to mind.
I was taught this one particular
very rapid healing technique,
but really all it entails
is collapsing the moment
into that perfected
template you're
talking about with
consciousness and letting it go
and letting it do its thing.
And so I hadn't really
looked at it that way
until you're bringing this up.
Another thing I'm
flashing back to
is one time I was contemplating
the nature of all of this.
And it was the same, but I was
seeing it as the 10th, ninth,
and eighth chakras.
And here he's saying it
goes from zero, one, two,
up to three.
So either way you look at it,
it was the exact same principles
of first there's the thought--
the thought form.
And then I was seeing
in that next dimension
a movement, geometry, color,
light, sound, and everything
that started
constructing into what
looks like a physical
reality and etheric form.
And then, boom, it would drop in
to physicality, physical form.
It sounds like it's the exact
same thing, just in reverse.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Kind of looking at
top down, instead of bottom up.
But bottom up actually makes
more sense on a creative level.
But it's the same thing.
And I can see it so
clearly that whatever
the quality of that
thought is, immediately
all these constituent building
blocks, mathematics, all of it,
rush in and start
creating what's going
to become a physical reality.
>>SELBIE: Yeah.
I think what you
experienced was what
I think of as the
mechanism of creation.
>>REGINA: Yes.
It was the mechanics of it.
>>SELBIE: And that's both
beyond us and within us,
that we are guiding that
mechanism of creation
each and every one of us.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And it's happening
subconsciously.
I mean, it's happening
without our awareness
with every single thought.
>>SELBIE: Yes.
We are continuously
creating, maintaining,
and sustaining the physical
body from the energy body.
And that if we did not
have an energy body,
the physical body
would cease to exist.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SELBIE: Like a
puff of atoms and it
would be gone, because it is the
holographic part of the system.
So the energy body is the
hologram of film, if you will.
And the energy in that realm
works through that hologram
to project the holographic
projection that
is our physical body.
And so that mechanism is
something that's continuous.
It's constant.
It never goes away.
>>REGINA: So then, as I
said in the open of this,
in our last few minutes,
what is it that keeps us
from walking through each
other, bumping into things,
falling down through the Earth
itself, which also isn't solid?
>>SELBIE: Well, a
lot of teachings
say that this world is an
illusion, and that I think
tends to make people think
that there's nothing there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: There's
something there.
It's just not what it seems.
>>REGINA: Yes.
[LAUGHS]
>>SELBIE: So like a magician
doing a show in Las Vegas,
that illusion is real stuff.
It just doesn't appear to
be what it actually is.
So our physical reality
is real, but it's
not the hard, physical matter
that we tend to think it is.
It's these empty
spheres of atoms.
But the reason why those
empty spheres of atoms
don't just collapse one into the
other is the electron clouds--
>>REGINA: That's what
I wanted to get to.
>>SELBIE: --around them.
>>REGINA: Huge
forcefield around these.
>>SELBIE: It creates a
little forcefield that's
very hard to collapse
unless you're at CERN,
or some other collider.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SELBIE: Normally,
they are very strongly
fixed in their reality,
and they're just
bumping up to each
other and they can't
pass each other's forcefield.
>>REGINA: And so as a
little bit of matter
that's in this atomic
structure, the forcefield
itself keeps everything in
its own identity, so to speak.
>>SELBIE: Right.
>>REGINA: In its own space.
>>SELBIE: Yeah, so all the
empty atom space in this hand
is being repelled from this
hand by the empty matter
forcefields in the other hand.
>>REGINA: Yes.
When I was reading that
that made sense to me.
I thought, yeah, that makes--
I can feel that.
So before we sign
off here, in the end,
when you were talking about that
first breath of an incarnation
and the last breath
of an incarnation,
just explain to us how you
see it in your understanding.
>>SELBIE: We get drawn back
to this level of reality,
this physical world, because
we're not done with it.
So we've died many, many times.
And after each one of
those, we have a team--
we have our astral
team of guides
who say we're going to send
you in to a new incarnation.
In we come.
And then genetics and
all the biosciences
start to build a
new body for us.
But they do so from
the template that
exists in the astral
level or the energy
level, the nonlocal level.
And then we have another
whole movie-like experience
of another life where we
have lots of adventures,
we have our ups, we have
our downs, all of which
is an opportunity for
us to learn until we age
and we pass away.
But that whole experience
has a reality to it.
I don't want to make it
sound like this is nothing,
this three-dimensional reality.
>>REGINA: Oh, no, how we respond
to the moments of our lives
is everything.
>>SELBIE: Yes.
And it's, I think, a matter
of sorting out for ourselves
the best responses,
the highest responses.
And to flex our muscles of
higher being so that we become
more creative, we
become more loving,
we become more intelligent.
That that's our job is to grow
in those divine gifts that
are the essential
part of who we are.
>>REGINA: Well, on
that, I'm not even
going to ask for final thoughts.
That was a perfect finish.
Joseph, thank you so much.
Thank you for joining
us here today.
And also, thank you for writing
this book, which I highly
encourage people to read
and share with others.
>>SELBIE: My pleasure.
>>REGINA: Again, the book is
titled "The Physics of God."
Very worthy contemplation.
His site is
physicsandgod.com if you
want to check out some more.
Till next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]